docs/latest/ns/README.md, before:

# Namespace

This namespace is where common terminology and ontology across all of the Urban
Observatories resides.

**Please submit a pull request and allow time for comments if you wish to add a term.**

Terminology that is unique to your institution of a specific sensor network may also be
defined in a local vocabulary.

## Term definitions

New terms *MUST* be added to the `defines` array within the relevant `index.json` document.

Each term *MUST* contain the following properties:

| Key | Description |
| --- | ----------- |
| @id | <p>A unique identifier for the term you are identifying, that will be used by documents authored against the vocabulary.</p><p>It *MUST* begin with the vocabulary file's given prefix.</p><p>Naming convention is that an `rdfs:Class` *SHOULD* begin with an uppercase letter and be specified in `PascalCase`, for example `uo:Collection`, and an `rdf:Property` *SHOULD* begin with a lowercase letter and be specified in `camelCase`, for example `uo:nextPage`.</p> |
| @type | <p>The type of term defined.</p><p>The `@type` *SHOULD* be one of the following:</p><ul><li>[`rdfs:Class`](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_classes) is used to describe an object or resource, and would be referenced in the `@type` key by its instances. This also determines the properties that object is expected to have. Examples of classes include `sosa:Sensor` and `uo:Collection`.</li><li>[`rdfs:Datatype`](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_datatype) for types of data that are not adequately described elsewhere. Examples of data types include `xsd:boolean` and `hydra:Rfc6570Template`.</li><li>[`rdf:Property`](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_property) for properties that are associated with an `rdfs:Class` and could appear as keys on the object. Examples include `sosa:madeBySensor` for observations and `dc:description` for a description of a resource.</li></ul> |
| [term_status](https://www.w3.org/2003/06/sw-vocab-status/note) | <p>A text description that indicates whether the term is suitable for use in production systems or likely to change. It *MUST* be one of:</p><ul><li>`unstable` when the meaning, deployment practices, documentation (or important associated software/services) associated with this term are liable to change arbitrarily at some point in the future. They may not, but stability is not guaranteed. Use with caution.</li><li>`testing` when the meaning, deployment practices, documentation and general understanding of this term are approaching some stability, but changes are still possible due to implementation experience or other unanticipated factors.</li><li>`stable` when the term is relatively stable, and its documentation and meaning are not expected to change substantially.</li><li>`archaic` when term is marked as old-fashioned; although used, it is not considered typical of current best practice and alternative expressions may be preferable.</li></ul> |

In addition, each term *SHOULD* contain the following properties:
| Key | Description |
| --- | ----------- |
| [label](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_label) | <p>The label *MAY* be used to provide a human-readable version of the term. This is often likely to be the same as the `@id` for the term, but without any special casing. It *SHOULD* be specified all lowercase except for proper nouns.</p><p>A good label might be "made by sensor" for the property "madeBySensor".</p> |
| [comment](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_comment) | The comment *MAY* be used to provide a more verbose description of the term. It should be human-readable.</p><p>A good comment might be "A collection of resources that may be viewed through pages or filtered" for `uo:Collection`. |
  
In addition, a term definition for an `rdf:Property` *MUST* include:
| Key | Description |
| --- | ----------- |
| [domain](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_domain) | <p>A reference to an `rdfs:Class` that this property is associated with, and might be expected to be used as a key for.</p><p>For example, a `uo:member` property could have the domain of `uo:Collection`, stating that collections would be expected to contain members.</p><p>Where multiple domains are specified, this indicates that all of the given classes are applicable. Use `schema:domainIncludes` for *one of* relations.</p> |

In addition, a term definition *MAY* include:
| Key | Description |
| --- | ----------- |
| [range](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_range) | <p>A reference to one or more `rdfs:Class`es that an `rdf:Property` might reference. For example, a collection of sensors could have the range `sosa:Sensor`.</p><p>Where multiple ranges are specified, this indicates that all of the given classes are applicable. Use `schema:rangeIncludes` for *one of* relations.</p> |
| [subClassOf](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_range) | <p>All instances of this class are also instances of another class.</p> |
| [subPropertyOf](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_subpropertyof) | <p>All instances of this property are also instances of another property.</p> |
| [seeAlso](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_seealso) | <p>A reference that provides additional information. This does not have to be machine readable, and could for example be a Wikipedia entry or similar.</p> |
| [sameAs](https://www.w3.org/TR/owl-ref/#sameAs-def) | <p>An indication that a resource is referring to exactly the same thing. This is most appropriate for physical things (e.g. a room in a building that exists in two different APIs may be linked this way) rather than conceptual relationships, which may be better described as a sub-class or sub-property.</p> |


## Naming conventions

The following table describes which *case* MUST be used when adding new definitions of a certain type. Note the use of compact IRIs, e.g. using the prefix `uo:`. 

Definition Type | Case | Examples
--- | --- | ---
Class | PascalCase | `uo:Discipline`, `uo:ObservableProperty`, `uo:Collection`
Property | camelCase | `uo:recommendedUnit`, `uo:hasMember`
Instances | kebab-case | `uo:atmospheric-chemistry`, `uo:air-temperature`, `uo:millimetre`, `uo:earth-atmosphere`

Commit message:

comment -> description. label capitalisation changed

docs/latest/ns/README.md, after:

# Namespace

This namespace is where common terminology and ontology across all of the Urban
Observatories resides.

**Please submit a pull request and allow time for comments if you wish to add a term.**

Terminology that is unique to your institution of a specific sensor network may also be
defined in a local vocabulary.

## Term definitions

New terms *MUST* be added to the `defines` array within the relevant `index.json` document.

Each term *MUST* contain the following properties:

| Key | Description |
| --- | ----------- |
| @id | <p>A unique identifier for the term you are identifying, that will be used by documents authored against the vocabulary.</p><p>It *MUST* begin with the vocabulary file's given prefix.</p><p>Naming convention is that an `rdfs:Class` *SHOULD* begin with an uppercase letter and be specified in `PascalCase`, for example `uo:Collection`, and an `rdf:Property` *SHOULD* begin with a lowercase letter and be specified in `camelCase`, for example `uo:nextPage`.</p> |
| @type | <p>The type of term defined.</p><p>The `@type` *SHOULD* be one of the following:</p><ul><li>[`rdfs:Class`](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_classes) is used to describe an object or resource, and would be referenced in the `@type` key by its instances. This also determines the properties that object is expected to have. Examples of classes include `sosa:Sensor` and `uo:Collection`.</li><li>[`rdfs:Datatype`](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_datatype) for types of data that are not adequately described elsewhere. Examples of data types include `xsd:boolean` and `hydra:Rfc6570Template`.</li><li>[`rdf:Property`](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_property) for properties that are associated with an `rdfs:Class` and could appear as keys on the object. Examples include `sosa:madeBySensor` for observations and `dc:description` for a description of a resource.</li></ul> |
| [term_status](https://www.w3.org/2003/06/sw-vocab-status/note) | <p>A text description that indicates whether the term is suitable for use in production systems or likely to change. It *MUST* be one of:</p><ul><li>`unstable` when the meaning, deployment practices, documentation (or important associated software/services) associated with this term are liable to change arbitrarily at some point in the future. They may not, but stability is not guaranteed. Use with caution.</li><li>`testing` when the meaning, deployment practices, documentation and general understanding of this term are approaching some stability, but changes are still possible due to implementation experience or other unanticipated factors.</li><li>`stable` when the term is relatively stable, and its documentation and meaning are not expected to change substantially.</li><li>`archaic` when term is marked as old-fashioned; although used, it is not considered typical of current best practice and alternative expressions may be preferable.</li></ul> |

In addition, each term *SHOULD* contain the following properties:
| Key | Description |
| --- | ----------- |
| [label](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_label) | <p>The label *MAY* be used to provide a human-readable version of the term. This is often likely to be the same as the `@id` for the term, but without any special casing. It *SHOULD* be specified all lowercase except for proper nouns.</p><p>A good label might be "made by sensor" for the property "madeBySensor".</p> |
| [comment](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_comment) | The comment *MAY* be used to provide a more verbose description of the term. It should be human-readable.</p><p>A good comment might be "A collection of resources that may be viewed through pages or filtered" for `uo:Collection`. |
  
In addition, a term definition for an `rdf:Property` *MUST* include:
| Key | Description |
| --- | ----------- |
| [domain](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_domain) | <p>A reference to an `rdfs:Class` that this property is associated with, and might be expected to be used as a key for.</p><p>For example, a `uo:member` property could have the domain of `uo:Collection`, stating that collections would be expected to contain members.</p><p>Where multiple domains are specified, this indicates that all of the given classes are applicable. Use `schema:domainIncludes` for *one of* relations.</p> |

In addition, a term definition *MAY* include:
| Key | Description |
| --- | ----------- |
| [range](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_range) | <p>A reference to one or more `rdfs:Class`es that an `rdf:Property` might reference. For example, a collection of sensors could have the range `sosa:Sensor`.</p><p>Where multiple ranges are specified, this indicates that all of the given classes are applicable. Use `schema:rangeIncludes` for *one of* relations.</p> |
| [subClassOf](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_range) | <p>All instances of this class are also instances of another class.</p> |
| [subPropertyOf](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_subpropertyof) | <p>All instances of this property are also instances of another property.</p> |
| [seeAlso](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_seealso) | <p>A reference that provides additional information. This does not have to be machine readable, and could for example be a Wikipedia entry or similar.</p> |
| [sameAs](https://www.w3.org/TR/owl-ref/#sameAs-def) | <p>An indication that a resource is referring to exactly the same thing. This is most appropriate for physical things (e.g. a room in a building that exists in two different APIs may be linked this way) rather than conceptual relationships, which may be better described as a sub-class or sub-property.</p> |


## Naming conventions

### @id's

The following table describes which *case* MUST be used for the `@id` of new definitions. Note the use of compact IRIs, e.g. using the prefix `uo:`. 

Definition Type | Case | Examples
--- | --- | ---
Class | PascalCase | `uo:Discipline`, `uo:ObservableProperty`, `uo:Collection`
Property | camelCase | `uo:recommendedUnit`, `uo:hasMember`
Instances | kebab-case | `uo:atmospheric-chemistry`, `uo:air-temperature`, `uo:millimetre`, `uo:earth-atmosphere`

### label's

The `label` property of *instances* should be short, but meaningful. The `description` can always be used to provide more detail. In most cases the first word in the label should be capitalised, e.g.: `Air temperature` or `Atmospheric chemistry`. However labels are allowed to break this rule if it results in the label having more meaning. Take the following examples:

- The unit `Degree Celsius` - Because `Celsius` is a surname it is appropriate to capitalise it too. 
- The observed property `PM₁₀ mass concentration` - The common approach to writing particulate matter is to abbreviate it to `PM` and therefore writting it as `Pm` would cause confusion, thus we use the common convention.
- The observed property `RSSI` - *received signal strength indicator* is far more commonly written as *RSSI* and therefore this is more appropriate for use as a label.

The benefit of this approach to capitalisation is that end-users can choose to use the capitalised form, or they can easily convert the whole string to the lowercase if they wish. It would be much harder to go in the other direction, i.e. we define it in all lowercase and force the end-user to correctly capitalise it.
